---
title: "if, unless, and cond"
slug: if-unless-cond
summary: "Here's something weird to think about: in a high-level functional language such as Elixir, writing conditional code is not exactly idiomatic. Using a combination of pattern matching and syntax rules we can write extremely clean code free of if statements and conditionals in general"
course: "take-off-with-elixir"
vimeo: "220058716"
category: "Going Deeper"
download_url: "https://vimeo.com/bigmachine/download/220058716/8587612dc5"
free: false
duration: 353
gist: "null"
github: "null"
---

One thing I dislike about most code books is they tell you about syntax rules, but not about *how people actually write the code in the wild*. I need you to write solid code here at Red:4, so let's take a second to talk about style.

### If You Need "if"

Let's revisit our `Solar` module's `power` function. When I first wrote it, I did what most programmers would do:

```elixir
defmodule Solar do
  def power(flare) do
    factor = 1
    if(flare.classification == :M) do
      factor = 10
    end
    if(flare.classification == :X) do
      factor = 1000
    end
    factor * flare.scale
  end
end
```

This code isn't bad, necessarily, but you'll notice the lack of `else if` here. Which is OK, as that's basically the same thing as a bunch of `if` statements.

The interesting thing about `if` (and `unless`) in Elixir is that they're not really a part of the language - [they're *macros*](http://elixir-lang.org/getting-started/case-cond-and-if.html#if-and-unless):

>An interesting note regarding if/2 and unless/2 is that they are implemented as macros in the language; they aren’t special language constructs as they would be in many languages. You can check the documentation and the source of if/2 in the Kernel module docs...

An `if` (or `unless`) statement is generally only used when you have a single condition you want to evaluate and they aren't used very often. In fact, I've written a number of Elixir libraries (some quite large) as well as a pretty large ecommerce application. I have, perhaps, two `if` statements (if that) in *all of the Elixir code I've ever written*. 

You just don't need them when you have pattern matching and smaller, isolated functions.

