---
title: "Working With Ecto and PostgreSQL"
slug: ecto-postgres
summary: "You have to store data somewhere and Elixir (and Erlang in general) give you quite a few tools to do so. In this video we'll see how to push data into PostgreSQL using Ecto, the ORM created by the Elixir team."
course: "take-off-with-elixir"
vimeo: "220067793"
category: "OTP"
download_url: "https://vimeo.com/bigmachine/download/220067793/38a74aa1f5"
free: false
duration: 751
gist: "null"
github: "null"
---

## An ORM? In a functional language? Wait a minute...

Yes, it's an argument you'll likely sit through a few times in the Elixir community. I certainly have. I have a strong opinion on this (which will become obvious in a second) but overall here's the thing:

 - you need to store data
 - we're using a relational database to do so, which Ecto (the data tool created by the Elixir team) supports
 - that data is structured in some way

### The Rub

Here comes the opinion... ORMs in the object-oriented world are plagued by issues relating to object-oriented programming. All of that centers around the idea that a relational database, as a concept, does not share the same general fundamental principles and concepts that object-oriented programming does. This is the "impedance mismatch" you'll hear about if you dive into the subject long enough.

It comes down to this: _there are things you can do with for loops, conditional branching, polymorphism, inheritance and `is-a` / `has-a` that are simply not part of the database vernacular. The whole idea of "lazy vs. eager loading" is part of this (how deep do you go to load up a related record, for instance).

My opinion is that _functional programming is no immune to this problem_ of impedance mismatch. You'll hear Elixirists proclaim loudly that "there are no objects in Elixir!" while happily pumping data into structs with defaults set and a structure implied. **Immutability does not mean something is not an object**. This leads me to the final point...

One of the most difficult problems with using a relational database as a data store is that you have to _map_ the data from the store to the structure (let's not kid ourselves it's an object). You have to resolve the database types (`text`, `text`, `bigint`, `date`, `date with a timezone`) to whatever the corresponding _type_ is in the language. This is the next problem to solve.

How do you map a PostgreSQL `JSONB` field to a field on a struct? That's right: _you map it somehow_.

So: that's the issue we have to deal with. **Ecto is an ORM that doesn't think it's an ORM** and the team steadfastly refuses to believe they are subject to the same issues as an ORM. 

I could be wrong, they could be right. I've written 3 ORMs in my career and I'll never do it again. I have scars to prove it. I feel each of those scars flare up when I use Ecto...

OK - opinion aside... let's get to it...

## Data Time!

You've got the basics down, I think. You might have to do some Googling but the time to make our move has come.

It turns out that the CTO, Sara, has tasked some developers to build a Physics library using .NET! We have a meeting later today to discuss the future of the Science Program with the board and they want to see our work!

*I need this space station operational!*

Let's get to work.

### Understanding Persistence and OTP

Let's take a look at our `SolarFlareRecorder` using an `Agent` one more time:

```elixir
defmodule SolarFlareRecorder do
  use GenServer

  def start_link do #example 1
    Agent.start_link fn -> [] end
  end

  #public API
  def record_flare(pid, {:flare, classification: c, scale: s} = flare) do
    Agent.get_and_update pid, fn ->
      new_state = List.insert_at flares, -1, flare
      {:ok, new_state}
    end
  end

  def get_flares(pid) do
    Agent.get pid, fn(flares) ->
      flares
    end
  end
end
```

In the last chapter I mentioned I would be coming back to the idea of persistence with our Agent. Now that you know a little bit about OTP and how Agents work - how would you handle data persistence with our `SolarFlareRecorder`? Let's think about this for a second before we dive in.

